README.rst, before:

File split made easy for python programmers!

A python module that can split files of any size into multiple chunks,
with optimum use of memory and without compromising on performance. The
module determines the splits based on the new line character in the
file, therefore not writing incomplete lines to the file splits. The
file splits are numbered from 1 to n as follows

[filename]_1.ext, [filename]_2.ext, …., [filename]_n.ext

System Requirements
-------------------

Operating System: Windows/Linux/Mac

Python version: Python 3

Usage
-----

The module is available as a part of PyPI and can be easily installed
using ``pip``

::

    pip install filesplit

Create an instance of the FileSplit object by passing file path and
split size as arguments.

::

    from fsplit.filesplit import FileSplit

    fs = FileSplit(file='path/to/file', splitsize=500000000, output_dir='/path/to/output directory/')

-  “file” and “splitsize” are required. “output_dir” is optional and
   defaults to current directory.
-  “splitsize” should be given in bytes.

With the instance created, any of the following methods can be invoked

split (include_header=False, callback=None)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Method that splits the file into multiple chunks. This method works in
binary mode under the hood which keeps the formatting and encoding of
splits as-is to that of the source which should be sufficient to handle
any file types.

::

    fs.split()

In case, if the file contains a header and if you want the header to be
available in all of your splits, you can optionally set the flag
“include_header” to True. By default it is set to False.

::

    fs.split(include_header=True)

Also, you can pass a callback function (optional) [func (str, long,
long)] that accepts three arguments - full path to the split, split file
size (bytes) and line count. The callback function will be called after
each file split.

::

    def func(f, s, c):
        print("file: {0}, size: {1}, count: {2}".format(f, s, c))

    fs.split(callback=func)

splitbyencoding (rencoding=“utf-8”, wencoding=“utf-8”, include_header=False, callback=None)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This method is similar to the above ``split()`` method, except that the
file encoding of the splits can be explicitly specified. This is helpful
if the file chunks has to be of specific encoding standard.
This method accepts two additional arguments to that of the ``split()`` method

- “rencoding” - encoding of the source file (default : ‘utf-8’)
- “wencoding” - encoding of the output file chunks (default: ‘utf-8’)

Commit message:

Added badge, improved grammar, & added code blocks

README.rst, after:

.. image:: https://badge.fury.io/py/filesplit.png
    :target: https://badge.fury.io/py/filesplit

filesplit
==========

File splitting made easy for python programmers!

A python module that can split files of any size into multiple chunks,
with optimal of memory and without compromising performance. The
module determines the splits based on the new line character in the
file, therefore not writing incomplete lines to the file splits. The
file splits are numbered from 1 to n as follows:

``[filename]_1.ext, [filename]_2.ext, …., [filename]_n.ext``

System Requirements
--------------------

**Operating System**: Windows/Linux/Mac

**Python version**: Python 3

Usage
-----

The module is available as a part of PyPI and can be easily installed
using ``pip``

::

    pip install filesplit

Create an instance of the FileSplit object by passing file path and
split size as arguments.

.. code-block:: python

    from fsplit.filesplit import FileSplit

    fs = FileSplit(file='path/to/file', splitsize=500000000, output_dir='/path/to/output directory/')

-  “file” and “splitsize” are required. “output_dir” is optional and
   defaults to current directory.
-  “splitsize” should be given in bytes.

With the instance created, any of the following methods can be invoked

split (include_header=False, callback=None)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Method that splits the file into multiple chunks. This method works in
binary mode under the hood which keeps the formatting and encoding of
splits as-is to that of the source which should be sufficient to handle
any file types.

.. code-block:: python

    fs.split()

In case, if the file contains a header and if you want the header to be
available in all of your splits, you can optionally set the flag
“include_header” to ``True``. By default it is set to ``False``.

.. code-block:: python

    fs.split(include_header=True)

Also, you can pass a callback function (optional) [func (str, long,
long)] that accepts three arguments - full path to the split, split file
size (bytes) and line count. The callback function will be called after
each file split.

.. code-block:: python

    def func(f, s, c):
        print("file: {0}, size: {1}, count: {2}".format(f, s, c))

    fs.split(callback=func)

splitbyencoding (rencoding=“utf-8”, wencoding=“utf-8”, include_header=False, callback=None)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This method is similar to the above ``split()`` method, except that the
file encoding of the splits can be explicitly specified. This is helpful
if the file chunks has to be of specific encoding standard.
This method accepts two additional arguments to that of the ``split()`` method

- “rencoding” - encoding of the source file (default : ‘utf-8’)
- “wencoding” - encoding of the output file chunks (default: ‘utf-8’)
